
Problem Definition--
A country’s healthcare system plays a vital role in its ability to respond effectively during health crises such as pandemics, outbreaks, natural disasters, and other emergencies. The global experience during the recent 2020 pandemic highlighted the challenges faced by countries that were unable to provide adequate care for their citizens, necessitating external support. Investing significantly in the health systems is directly linked to improved care measures for patients, which contributes to overall population health, and ultimately, a stronger economy. Therefore, it is imperative to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the healthcare expenditure, both at the global scale and at country-level. Such analysis is crucial for informed policy decisions, ensuring robust preparedness under any circumstances and the advancement of societal well-being. 

Objective--
The aim of our analysis is to uncover useful insights from macroeconomic factors and other dimensions of our database. We will start by exploring the changes in healthcare spending over time, including any significant growths or stagnations. Next, we will analyze the expenditure globally as well as across countries to reveal any differences in spending patterns and possible inequities in healthcare access. This database can also shed light on the several insurance systems used in different countries, examining how public and private insurance models affect the overall costs. Additionally, we will investigate the distribution of cost across illnesses, which will help in understanding the areas receiving greatest financial attention and where the resource allocation may need to be adjusted. Finally, we plan to look into the health outcomes and see how these relate to the investments made in healthcare by different countries.   

Data Source--
For this project, we will be using the Global Health Expenditure Database from the World Health Organization website. It consists of 313 attributes and ~4200 records of data from different countries. This database has both static and transactional data. It mainly provides information about expenditures across different areas in the healthcare system like financing schemes (insurance), diseases and conditions, healthcare functions, and more. We plan to divide this database into 7 or more tables. Additionally, we have also taken the Health & Income Outcomes from Kaggle to correlate our financial analysis with appropriate outcomes.
